So at this point in our code, we already know which of the people in the database matches the face
of the person in the webcam, which is me.
So instead of the last print, we no longer want to show something so simple but something more specific.
So let's go to search for the name of the employee found.
And remember that we have the name stored.
So we are going to do it in a variable that is going to be called employee name, which is going to
be equal to the list employee names, but only the one found in the match index.
We do this because the match index was the smallest number in this list it was indexed to.
So in the list of names that we have up here, it's going to look for index two and that's Federico
Garcia.
So now employee name stores the value.
Federico Gary.
This is because I was the one in front of the camera.
If Jerry Seinfeld comes to my house and stands in front of the camera, in that case, it would be index
four, but we won't be able to check it.
What follows is show the image obtained and we do it with CV two with the method I am show.
That name.
We're going to put Web image.
This is what we're going to be seeing when the capture is seen in the window.
What image is going to be shown?
The one stored in the variable image.
And then so that it doesn't disappear from our image.
When the code is finished and we can't see it, we're going to put keep window open with CV two dot
weight key with the value zero.
We weren't again.
And I'm going to have to prepare myself to be photographed many times today.
So I take off my glasses, smile at the camera, and here I am at the top.
It says Web Image, which is the title I gave to it.
Now we'd like to show the rectangle on that face.
So here, before we display the image, we're going to create a series of variables which might scare
you a little because they're y one, x, two, Y two and X one.
And you're wondering what what are these four variables Fred is generating here?
Well, they're going to store the four location points that are generated when we place the face in
the photo.
Remember that the generates four lines top right, bottom and left.
And those four locations are going to be stored here.
So where do we get them from?
From the variable location phase.
If at this point you're a bit lost and you say, what was location phase?
Well, it's the variable that we generate in the for loop that we are in when we store in face everything
that comes from encoded, captured face and in location face, everything that comes from captured face.
So location face has captured face.
And what is captured face?
Let's go further up.
It is the result of applying face locations on our image.
In short face locations, takes the image, locates the face, and passes that information to captured
face.
And then in the for loop we make it so that with each image captured, face is passed to location face.
So at this point, location face contains the four values we need.
Storing them in these variables, we can now manipulate them separately in order to create the rectangle.
So we call cv2 dot rectangle as we did before, and now we pass image to be the base where the rectangle
is going to be drawn.
And then we construct two reference points the top left vertex of our rectangle, which is going to
be at X one and Y one, and the next tuple corresponds to the values of the lower right vertex, which
is going to be where x two is with y two.
So I do it fast because I've been thinking a lot about it.
You might find it a little difficult to identify how to construct this, but if you think about it for
a while, it all makes perfect sense.
Next, we're going to give a rectangle, a color like we did before.
We're going to make it green with the values zero two, five, five and zero.
We're going to give it a thickness that's going to be equal to two.
And if we run this again, we're going to recreate our list of characters which are going to appear
in an instant.
Now comes the picture.
I'm getting ready.
And there it is.
And as you can see, I now appear with the rectangle on my face.
Now, I would also like a small rectangle to appear underneath that that contains the name of the person
found.
So let's continue here on the next line with another cv2 and we're going to create another rectangle
and we're going to take the data we have above.
We're going to put the image in.
And then we're going to set a different vertex, which is going to be equal to x one next to Y two.
So we're making the bottom left vertex, but we're going to subtract 35 pixels from it.
This is going to make a new box, have a vertex just below the main rectangle, and the other vertex
is going to be x two.
At its meeting with y two.
Nothing more than that.
So the box is going to be located exactly below the main rectangle.
Copy these values again to match the colour and thickness.
But this time, instead of a border of two, we're going to change it to a method of CV two, which
is filled with this will fill the whole rectangle with green.
And now we need to put some text in there.
So CV two dot put text is going to be placed in image as text is going to be put whatever is in employee
name in this case.
Federico, go.
Then we're going to put a location for this which is going to be x one plus six so that it is distance
from the left edge and the next value of this vertex is going to be y two minus six so that it is distance
from the top edge.
Now CV two dot font Hershey complex for the lettering and we set the scale to one.
Then the colour of the text is going to be white.
So we can say 255, 255, 255 and we're going to add a two to this to set the line thickness of the
text.
So I think we're all set to do one more test.
We're going to call the code again and I'm getting ready for the picture.
And there I am in one of the most horrible shots of my life.
But with the rectangle and the name, I'm not going to complain.
The last test we want to do is to see what happens if another person appears on the screen.
So I have my phone ready with a picture of the actor playing George Constanza to see if identifies him.
So we run and this time I can keep my glasses on because I'm putting my phone in front of the camera.
And the system recognizes that the one who appeared on camera this time is George.
And this time it threw up his name.
So our facial recogniser is working perfectly.
But although our program seems complete, it is still missing.
One more detail.
Now we need to make it so that every time it recognizes someone, it stores some information in a log,
but then allows us to track attendance, checking who attended and what time they arrived.
And we're going to do this in the next lesson where we will finish our program.